Hello again!
In this video, we are going to continue looking at the new parallel algorithms in C++17.
First, we are going to take a slight detour and look at the transform algorithm.
This takes a range of elements and a callable object.
It will call that object on every element in the iterator range,
and the result of each call will
be used to populate a destination container.
In functional languages,
there is a similar concept called map. That name is used for something else in C++.
So here is an example of transform. We have a vector, which is going to be the input
and a vector v2
which is going to be the output.
Our callable object will double its argument.
So this is going to be called on every element in v
and the result is going to be stored as the elements
of v2.
So we would expect that the elements of v2 are two, four, six and eight from doubling these.
And there
are, two four, six, eight.
So that allows us to apply a unary operator to transform a vector.
There's also an overload of transform, which allows us to apply a binary operator
to transform
pairs of elements from different containers.
So this version will take elements from two containers and combine them.
So in this case, we have two input containers. v3 is going to be the output container.
The callable object is going to add its arguments, so this is going to be called on every element
in v and v2.
And it is going to add them.
So one plus five, and then that will store six as the first elements of v3.
Two plus six will give eight as the
second element and so on.
So there we are.
The elements in this vector are the sum of the corresponding elements in the input vectors.
We have touched upon this already, but one of the most common ways of doing parallel programming is to
split the problem up into small units, have one thread or processor which handles each sub-unit,
and then
you combine all the results from each sub-unit to get the complete result.
In C++,
you can do this by dividing the data into subsets.
You start a number of threads, each one of which will call transform and perform some sort of operation
on part of the data,
and then you can call reduce to combine together the results from each thread
into the final answer.
The problem is that these are two separate functions.
So each thread that calls transform has to write data to a container.
The reduce process has to read all these containers.
The reduce function cannot be called until all the transform threads have finished.
Because all the transform threads will be taken down and then reduce will have to start up some threads
as well, and it would be much more efficient if we could just re-use these threads.
Another way of thinking about this is going back to the early days of programming,
before there were
things like interprocess communication. If you wanted programs to share data,
you would have to get one program
to write its data to file,
and then the next program would have to read its data from that file or
perhaps tape in those days.
The problem is that writing to file is very slow.
What they did was invent various forms of interprocess communication in which the data is held in memory,
so that avoids all the output of writing to file and reading back in again.
It also introduces the possibility of streaming data.
So the second program can start reading data as soon as the first program produces it.
C++ provides a combined transform_reduce function to remove this overhead.
It is actually based on
an existing algorithm called inner_product.
So let's find out what that does.
inner_product is actually designed for numerical processing.
It takes two containers, multiplies the
corresponding elements together, and then calculates the sum of all these products.
So as an example, we have two vectors x and y. We call inner_product.
We give the iterator range,
which is all the elements in x, we give the start of y and the initial value of the sum,
and then
this will multiply the values.
So one times five, two times four, three times three and so on.
And it is going to add all those together.
And the result is 35.
transform_reduce works exactly the same way,
except we have the option of specifying an execution
policy.
So here we are.
Let's see, we get the same result, 35. Basically the same code.
We just replace inner_product by transform_
reduce.
You may say "that is not very interesting, I do not do very much matrix multiplication in my work."
The interesting thing is that you can overload the operators.
We can replace the multiplication by a "transform" function.
So this takes two arguments of the type of the elements of the containers,
and it does something and
it returns a value which has some return type,
and then we can replace the addition operator by a "reduce"
function.
This will take two arguments of
the returned type, do something with them and return another value of the result type.
So we can
do some kind of parallel operation here and then we can combine together the results here.
An example which is not really going too far away from maths. It is a scientific experiment,
we have done
an experiment.
We have got a vector here which contains our results.
We have also got another vector.
We have calculated what the results should be according to the theory.
So we want to find out which one of these data points has the biggest erorr,
which means the biggest
discrepancy between theory and practice.
We could do this using a transform_reduce.
We replace the multiplication by some kind of transformation operation.
So this is the stage that is done in parallel.
In this case, we are finding the differences between the corresponding elements in the two vectors.
Then we replace the addition by a reduce operation.
So this is going to go through the differences and produce the final answer.
In this case, it is going to find the largest one out of those differences.
So it is going to work like this. We will replace the multiplication by a function that finds the difference
between corresponding elements, instead of multiplying them together.
And instead of adding together
the results, we are going to find the result which has the biggest value.
So here we are, the transform stage is where we find the difference between the two elements and
then the reduce stage is where we find the biggest difference.
So here is an example. I have created a vector which has the results which are predicted by theory,
and
then some results which might have come from actually doing the experiment.
Then we call transform_reduce.
We find the absolute difference between each element.
We have to use the floating point version because these are doubles.
And then we go through and find
the maximum.
So let's see what that gives us.
There we are.
The maximum difference is nought point nought three.
And I think that is those elements there.
And there we again, nought point nought three.
OK, so that's it for this video.
I'll see you next time.
But meanwhile, keep coding!